#LyX 2.5 created this file. For more info see https://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 643
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass book
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{titlesec}

% ----------------------------
% Title metadata
% ----------------------------
\title{Your Book Title}
\author{Your Name}
\date{}

% ----------------------------
% Replace \maketitle completely
% ----------------------------
\makeatletter
\renewcommand{\maketitle}{%
  \begin{titlepage}
    \centering
    \vspace*{\fill}
    {\Huge\bfseries \@title \par}
    \ifx\@author\@empty\else
      \vspace{1.5em}
      {\Large \@author \par}
    \fi
    \vspace*{\fill}
  \end{titlepage}
}
\makeatother

% ----------------------------
% Center all headings
% ----------------------------
\titleformat{\part}[display]
  {\centering\normalfont\Huge\bfseries}
  {\partname\ \thepart}
  {1ex}
  {}

\titleformat{\chapter}[display]
  {\centering\normalfont\LARGE\bfseries}
  {\chaptertitlename\ \thechapter}
  {1ex}
  {}

\titleformat{\section}
  {\centering\normalfont\Large\bfseries}
  {\thesection}{1em}{}

\titleformat{\subsection}
  {\centering\normalfont\large\bfseries}
  {\thesubsection}{1em}{}

\titleformat{\subsubsection}
  {\centering\normalfont\normalsize\bfseries}
  {\thesubsubsection}{1em}{}

% ----------------------------
% Chapter spacing
% ----------------------------
\titlespacing*{\chapter}{0pt}{0pt}{2em}

% ----------------------------
% Chapter caption
% ----------------------------
\newcommand{\chaptercaption}[1]{%
  \par
  \vspace{0.75em}
  {\centering\large\textperiodcentered\par}
  \vspace{0.5em}
  {\centering\itshape #1\par}
  \vspace{1em}
}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children no
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding auto
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_roman_osf false
\font_sans_osf false
\font_typewriter_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement class
\float_alignment class
\paperfontsize default
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize letter
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification default
\crossref_package refstyle
\use_formatted_ref 0
\use_minted 0
\use_lineno 0
\backgroundcolor none
\fontcolor none
\notefontcolor lightgray
\boxbgcolor red
\table_border_color default
\table_odd_row_color default
\table_even_row_color default
\table_alt_row_colors_start 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008080
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip halfline
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tablestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\change_bars false
\postpone_fragile_content true
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\docbook_table_output 0
\docbook_mathml_prefix 1
\docbook_mathml_version 0
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Seeing
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

A Practice
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter*
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
Invitation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is an invitation to spiritual discipline.
 It asks for both compassion and diligence:
 compassion,
 so that one does not turn truth into cruelty;
 diligence,
 so that one does not evade truth in the name of comfort.
 Others may offer company,
 witness,
 and the strength of example.
 One may draw courage from those who have walked before.
 But no one can walk this path in another’s place.
 It cannot be handed over,
 borrowed,
 or completed by proxy.
 It must become one’s own through honest practice.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At times,
 it may help to name the kind of work that is being asked:
 to gather,
 to see,
 to release,
 or to act.
 The name does not resolve the difficulty,
 but it may help one take up the right discipline.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter*
Demeter
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Grounding
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What inner ground must be prepared so that truth can be borne?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Begin by gathering yourself.
 Do not rush toward judgment,
 interpretation,
 or remedy.
 Attend first to the condition in which you are meeting the question.
 What in you is scattered,
 braced,
 inflamed,
 collapsed,
 or estranged from itself?
 What must be steadied,
 softened,
 or made spacious before truth can be approached without violence?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is not a demand for calm.
 It is the work of emotional regulation:
 the gradual building of capacity to remain present with what is real without immediate reaction,
 distortion,
 or flight.
 Not suppression,
 not control,
 but the ability to stay.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The work here is not to force calm,
 but to prepare a field in which truth can be borne without immediate distortion.
 Demeter does not rush the harvest.
 Where the ground has been broken or scorched,
 she withholds.
 Nothing grows until the field is tended.
 To be with Demeter is to refuse false readiness,
 and to prepare conditions in which something living could take root.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Name your state in plain words:
 scattered,
 braced,
 numb,
 ashamed,
 enraged,
 afraid.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Do nothing irreversible until your body is less inflamed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ask:
 what would help me stay present for five more minutes?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
See Prentis Hemphill —
 Finding Our Way;
 Mia Mingus —
 What is Accountability?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter*
Apollo
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Insight
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What is truly here?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If you cannot see,
 ask why you cannot see.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Where does the will hesitate,
 withdraw,
 or refuse?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What would need to change for the “cannot” to become a “can”?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What are you adding that narrows the possible,
 and why does it hold such power?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The work here is to notice what has been laid upon the fact:
 fear,
 law,
 habit,
 shame,
 loyalty,
 inheritance,
 despair.
 Do not begin by trying to force a new answer.
 Begin by seeing clearly what constrains sight itself.
 Say what happened before you say what it means.
 Separate the fact from the interpretation,
 and the interpretation from the fear that sustains it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Apollo does not soften what is seen.
 He clarifies.
 He separates what is from what has been placed upon it.
 To stand with Apollo is to endure this light:
 to let the fact stand without adornment,
 and to see what has been added in order to bear it or avoid it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Write the fact in one sentence,
 without motive or explanation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
List what you know,
 what you infer,
 and what you fear.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ask:
 what am I adding,
 and what would remain if I stopped adding it?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
See also:
 Dean Spade —
 Love in a Fcked-Up World*;
 Kai Cheng Thom —
 Conflict is a system demanding transformation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter*
Persephone
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Release
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What must be let go,
 and what returns changed?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Do not ask only what you wish to keep.
 Ask also what has already ended,
 what can no longer be carried,
 what asks to be buried,
 surrendered,
 or relinquished.
 What identity,
 hope,
 law,
 grievance,
 attachment,
 or interpretation has bound itself to the pain and now claims necessity?
 What must be released so that life is no longer spent protecting what has already died?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The work here is not mere loss.
 It is descent,
 transformation,
 and return.
 What comes back from this letting-go may not be what was lost,
 but something altered,
 ripened,
 and capable of living differently.
 Let release become concrete:
 not a mood,
 but a cessation.
 Stop feeding what is already over.
 Stop preserving what survives only by your fear of its ending.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Persephone does not ask whether one wishes to descend.
 She asks what becomes of a life once descent has already occurred.
 To be with Persephone is to remain with what cannot be undone,
 and to release not only what has ended,
 but the meanings that kept it in place.
 What is relinquished here may be the very way the pain has made the world make sense.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
Name one thing that is already over.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
Stop one act of preservation that keeps the dead thing in place.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
Grieve the loss without arguing against it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
See also:
 Leah Lakshmi Piepzna-Samarasinha —
 Care Work;
 Mariame Kaba —
 Harm,
 Punishment,
 and Abolition
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter*
Themis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Action
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What is the right measure of action now?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Let action be guided neither by panic nor by grandiosity.
 Ask what is justly sized to the truth that has been seen.
 What belongs to this moment,
 and what does not?
 What is required,
 what is possible,
 and what is excess?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The work here is not to do everything,
 nor to prove worth through effort,
 but to act in right measure:
 faithfully,
 proportionately,
 and without self-deception.
 Let the next act arise from truth,
 not compulsion.
 Choose the act you can actually complete,
 not the one that flatters your self-image or punishes your failure.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Themis concerns herself not with intensity,
 but with proportion.
 She gives each thing its weight,
 and no more.
 To stand with Themis is to act without excess:
 neither shrinking from what is required nor enlarging oneself beyond one’s measure.
 What is asked is not everything,
 but what is justly yours to do.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Choose one next act that can be done today.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Name what is yours to do and what is not.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Refuse one excessive act driven by panic,
 guilt,
 or display.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
See also:
 Staci K.
 Haines —
 On Somatics and Social Justice;
 Shery Mead —
 Intentional Peer Support
\end_layout

\begin_layout Part*
Appendix —
 Crossings and Conditions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Some conditions shape the practice at every stage:
 illness,
 incapacity,
 constraint,
 grief,
 and the limits of what can be changed.
 These are not obstacles to the work.
 They are part of its ground.
 A practice that cannot bear weakness,
 dependence,
 recurrence,
 or fatigue is too fragile to tell the truth.
 Let the measure of the work include the body that must do it,
 the conditions under which it is being done,
 and the realities that do not yield simply because they are unwanted.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Let limitation count as real information.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Do not confuse incapacity with failure.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Measure the practice by truthfulness,
 not by output.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
See also:
 Eli Clare —
 Grappling with Cure;
 Johanna Hedva —
 Future Present
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
